An 18-year-old brother
was trying to decide
what he wanted to do after high school.
He was raised in the truth, and in his heart,
he wanted to be a pioneer.
But he also had a scholarship
to go to university
and some other grants,
and he had been accepted to attend.
He had many questions
(how was he going to support himself?)
and much pressure from his teachers
and counselors to go to university.
What decision would he make?
Well, maybe many of you young ones
who are listening to this talk right now
are facing that same decision,
or maybe you will be in a year or two.
What path will you take?
Well, now, here’s what we know:
Jehovah wants you to have,
not just a good life,
not just an average life,
but he wants you to have an awesome,
wonderful life
—both now during your youth
and really for your entire life.
That’s why the Bible says
at Ecclesiastes 11:9:
“Rejoice, young man, while you are young,
and let your heart be glad
in the days of your youth.”
Well, many young people
have found real joy and peace
by choosing a career
in the full-time service.
But now, when we say full-time service,
what are we talking about?
Well, full-time service
is not just one thing.
It actually includes many things.
It includes pioneering,
maybe in your home congregation
or maybe in another area
or maybe in another city, state,
province or even in another country.
It might mean assisting
with theocratic construction projects,
maybe building Kingdom Halls
or Assembly Halls
or building remote translation offices
or even working at building
at Bethel facilities.
And it also could mean
submitting an application
for Bethel service and becoming a Bethelite.
Really, there are
so many wonderful opportunities
that are available for you young ones
in full-time service.
But now, here’s a question:
What challenges could prevent you
from starting or continuing
on the path of full-time service?
And more important,
how can you overcome those challenges?
Well, let’s talk about three obstacles.
Here’s the first one:
It’s financial concerns.
How am I going to support myself?
Well, let’s look at something that Jesus said
at Matthew chapter 6
and verse 33
—Matthew 6:33.
Jesus said: “Keep on, then,
seeking first the Kingdom
“and his righteousness,
and all these other things
will be added to you.”
Well, now, OK.
It says “all these other things.”
What other things?
What is Jesus talking about here?
Well, to find out,
why don’t we go back up to verse 25?
And let’s read a little bit more
of what Jesus
was talking about when he said
those famous words
—verse 25:
“On this account I say to you:
“Stop being anxious about your lives
“as to what you will eat
or what you will drink,
“or about your bodies
as to what you will wear.
“Does not life mean more than food
and the body than clothing?”
Now (after identifying)—
Now, we know what Jesus is talking about:
He’s talking about our necessities
—food, shelter, clothing.
But now, look at the illustrations
Jesus goes on to give now,
beginning here in verse 26:
“Observe intently the birds of heaven;
“they do not sow seed or reap
or gather into storehouses,
“yet your heavenly Father feeds them.
“Are you not worth more than they are?
“Who of you by being anxious
can add one cubit to his life span?
“Also, why are you anxious about clothing?
“Take a lesson from the lilies of the field,
“how they grow;
they do not toil, nor do they spin;
“but I tell you that not even Solomon
“in all his glory was arrayed
as one of these.
“Now if this is how God clothes
the vegetation of the field
“that is here today and tomorrow
is thrown into the oven,
“will he not much rather clothe you,
“you with little faith?
“So never be anxious and say,
‘What are we to eat?’
“or, ‘What are we to drink?’
or, ‘What are we to wear?’
“For all these are the things
the nations are eagerly pursuing.
“Your heavenly Father knows
that you need all these things.”
Well, do you get the sense of this?
Jesus was trying to reason
that just as Jehovah provides
for all of his creation,
he can provide for you too.
We just need to develop our faith
that Jehovah will provide the things we need
if we put his service first.
Well, does that mean
that Jehovah is just going to drop
into our lap everything that we need?
Well, no.
Jehovah expects
that we’re going to use the things
that he’s given us
to be able to support ourselves.
So it’s very wise when you’re young
to plan ahead so that you can obtain
the skills you need
to be able to support yourself.
Now, in some lands,
it may be that as you’re growing up,
you can learn a trade from your father
or from your mother
or maybe even from another relative.
In other lands, you might be able
while you’re still in high school
to take some vocational courses
that would help you to learn
a skill or learn a trade.
But here’s the point: We need to plan.
So ask yourself, ‘What abilities and skills
do I have that I could use
to support myself?’
A sister named Kelly
had a very clear goal in mind
of becoming a pioneer.
So, what did she do?
Well, this is what she says:
“I had to choose something
that would allow me
to support myself in my ministry.”
Kelly enrolled in a vocational program
in her high school,
and that helped her
to achieve her primary goal.
Here’s what she said:
“The full-time ministry
was what I wanted to do.
Everything else was secondary.”
Well, how does Kelly feel now
about the decision that she made?
She says: “I feel my decision
was the best one that I could have made.”
You young brothers and sisters,
you can overcome that challenge
just by planning ahead
and making sure
that you have practical skills
you can use to support yourself.
Here’s the second obstacle:
pressure from others.
‘My relatives want me
to focus on making money.’
Well, if that’s the case,
explain your spiritual goals
in a calm, respectful way.
Colossians 4:6 says:
“Let your words always be gracious,
seasoned with salt.”
Well, we all know
when we eat food with no salt,
it doesn’t taste very good, does it?
We put a little salt on it
—now it becomes delicious.
So make sure that when you
speak to your relatives,
you put a little salt on those words
so that you can reason with them
and help them to see the wisdom
of the decision that you want to make.
Well, it could be
that your relatives will not agree with you.
But let’s look at something that Jesus said
here at Luke 7:35.
Jesus said: “All the same,
“wisdom is proved righteous
“[or, now, if you look at the footnote,
it says, ‘or “is vindicated”’]
by all its children.”
Well, now, what’s the point?
Well, sometimes when people make a decision,
we’re not sure if it
was the right one or not.
But when the decision works out well,
when it leads to success,
when people see how happy you are
and how successful you are
—the joy, the satisfaction you have—
well, then, what happens?
Well, maybe your relatives will see
that your decision has been vindicated.
It’s been “proved righteous”
by the way things have turned out.
Here’s obstacle number three:
unexpected challenges.
‘I thought it was going
to be easier than this.’
Well, those unexpected challenges
can be many.
It could be just trying
to get used to new roommates,
dealing with personality challenges,
or even just coping with homesickness.
Here’s the point: Don’t give up!
Notice what James said here
in James chapter 1
—James chapter 1
and verse 4.
Now, you notice as you look at verse 2,
James is talking about trials,
and he’s talking about how trials
can have a positive effect on us.
But now look what he says in verse 4:
“But let endurance complete its work,
“so that you may be complete
and sound in all respects,
not lacking in anything.”
What’s James trying to say?
What’s his point?
Well, have you ever heard the expression
“No pain, no gain”?
Well, if you want to reach
a certain fitness goal
or if you want to be very good
at playing a certain sport,
no doubt you’re going to have
some aching muscles.
And no doubt you’re going to have
some hurt pride along the way too.
Maybe you won’t be very good
when you first start.
But what do you do?
If you want to become good,
if you want to reach your goal,
you can’t give up.
You have to keep trying.
Well, the same could be said
about reaching our spiritual goals.
You see, James mentions
that trials often reveal our weaknesses.
Maybe it’s some aspect of our personality
that needs improvement.
Or maybe it’s something
in our relationship with Jehovah.
Maybe we need greater faith;
maybe we need greater trust.
If we endure even during periods of trial
and when we refuse to give up,
we become stronger.
We become stronger in our spirituality
and our relationship with Jehovah
—our love for him,
our faith in him, our trust in him
just continues to grow.
As James says there in verse 4,
we become “complete
and sound in all respects,
not lacking in anything.”
So when those trials come
—and they will come—
don’t look for a quick way out.
Endure, keep going, don’t give up!
Seek advice from brothers and sisters
who have successfully coped
with similar challenges,
and you too will be successful.
In the following video,
notice how some full-time servants
have found real peace
despite those three obstacles:
financial concerns,
pressure from others,
and unexpected challenges.
I prayed to Jehovah,
“If it is your will, I would be happy
to enter pioneer service.”
But I had to work really hard
to provide for the needs of my family
because my father had died
when he was 45 years old.
The elder that I talked to
gave me advice not to be picky
about what kind of job I could get.
He reminded me of Matthew 6:33,
and told me
not to be overly anxious.
Because of our good communication
within the family,
we were able to find solutions.
My other siblings realized
that they also shared
responsibility in providing
for the needs of the family.
After one year of pioneering,
I was encouraged to apply for Bethel service,
and now I am in Bethel.
I feel that Jehovah really cares for me,
loves me,
and appreciates all my efforts.
Because they love me, my cousins
pressured me to choose a secular career.
If I went against
their wishes, it would hurt them
and put a strain on our relationship.
I was really anxious.
I wanted to show my trust
in Jehovah by pioneering
and give him an opportunity to show me
that I can be happy in his service.
I tried to express my appreciation
for my cousins by what
I said and did
and showed them love.
They’ve realized
that I have changed for the better.
I show more concern for others now.
Now they understand that we have been
learning good things and that we have
a happier and more meaningful life.
I wanted to try serving
where the need was greater.
When I first arrived,
I thought it was so cool being there.
I had expected the poverty,
but when I saw it,
it hit home more than what I had expected.
So then I started to feel really homesick.
But my brothers and sisters—
I’d go to the Kingdom Hall and they
were able to cope with the challenges
that they were facing because they had
Jehovah in their life.
So their example really helped me to see
that my circumstances
don’t need to change
for my attitude to change.
Proverbs 15:15 stood out to me,
which is about having “a cheerful heart”
and being able to have “a continual feast”
no matter what my circumstances are.
And I found an article about that scripture.
And so from there, I decided to ask myself,
‘How can I use my situation
and what I’m learning to help others?’
And I got to start helping
with a foreign-language group there.
That whole experience
just made my love for people grow so much
and definitely changed my life.
Some of your non-Witness family members
might offer you secular or financial advice.
We know they mean well
and they feel that they’re giving you
the best advice
because they love you.
But, young brothers and sisters,
we are convinced that the blessings
of full-time service
far outweigh any challenges
that might go along with it.
Just think of the experiences
that we heard in the video.
Harley’s choices allowed him to go to Bethel
and helped him to feel
that Jehovah really loved him.
Anjil’s choices took courage,
but those choices helped him
to be more concerned about other people
and helped his relatives to see
that he had made a good decision.
And Carlee did not give up
when the trials came.
Instead, she learned
to love other people even more
and became a more powerful, strong Christian.
Brothers and sisters, why are we so convinced
that full-time service
will lead you young ones
to a wonderful life?
Well, it’s because that’s the decision
that so many of us made when we were young.
Do you remember
that 18-year-old young brother
who was trying to decide which path to take?
Well, that was me some years ago.
I’m so glad
that with the help of Jehovah and my parents
and other mature friends in the congregation,
I made the decision
just like so many other brothers
and sisters around the world
to turn down that scholarship,
to give up university,
and to go directly
into the full-time service.
That is a decision
that I have never regretted;
that is a decision that I will never regret.
Young people, Jehovah loves you.
He wants you to have
a wonderful, awesome life.
Choose the path
of full-time service if you can.
You will never regret it.
It will put you on a path
that leads to joy and peace
with our marvelous, wonderful God, Jehovah.